# Gabriel Smith - Individual Capstone Assessment

Our project is all about real-world impact. The idea of anabling people to connect better and easier is something that deffinitely appeals to me. From an academic perspective, this project will expose me to new, cutting-edge technologies in Augmented Reality and allow me to showcase my software design capabilities. This will force me to work with both hardware and software, ensuring that the actual software components interface well with the hardware components, like a headset or camera. Working in a team will also provide me with valuable experience which will be applicable throughout my career. This will involve a lot of research across the board, which is further helped by my academic experience.

The college curriculum at UC has given me many opportunities which have furthered my skills as a developer and software engineer. The most applicable course has certainly been Software Engineering, which has already given me experience in providing design documents, UML diagrams, and a functioning prototype of a product of my own creation with a team. This project is going to be rather large. Having experience in creating class and sequence diagrams will be very useful in communicating designs and ensuring understanding. Python Programming will also be applicable. That course exposed me to using third party libraries in my own project, so that experience is directly useful in this case as well. Additionally, Intro to Public Speech will also be useful, as we will have to present this project at the Senior Expo.

My co-op experiences have been even more valuable. Working at Honeywell Intelligrated as a Software Project Engineer allowed me to gain experience in working in a team for the first time. This will be useful as this project also involves teamwork. Working as a Developer at Siemens PLM Software has been even more useful. While there, I gained experience in software design, presenting designs, working with source control via Git, and implementing new designs. All of these things will be applicable to my senior design project. Source control via Git is already being used for our project repository. Design diagrams will be incredibly important, as we are expected to create UML and user stories which will showcase our project at various levels of abstraction.

I am extremely motivated and excited to participate in this project. I am interested in the idea of language processing via machine learning. Augmented/virtual reality are incredibly popular now, so working with these technologies will be exciting for me. Helping people experience other cultures is also appealing on a more personal level. Ideally, this project will be scalable and perhaps distributed into real-world use. That's much more exciting that just working on an assignment.

Preliminary design considerations brings up a lot to think about. First we should determing how we will handle the three main modules: speech-to-text, translation, and hardware integration. After that, it's more about treating each as a black box and making sure each works individually. Our expected results is creating a working prototype, ideally something that will be scalable and extended in the future. We will evaluate contributions by keeping track of participation by monitoring commits to our Git repository. We will know when we are done when the initial prototype works with little to no bugs.